Toolhive UI registry (#148)
stacklok/docs-website: docs/toolhive/guides-ui/registry.mdx

description: How to use the built-in or custom registry to find MCP servers.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

ToolHive includes a built-in registry of MCP servers with verified
configurations that meet a
[minimum quality standard](../concepts/registry-criteria.md), allowing you to
discover and deploy high-quality tools effortlessly. You can browse the
registry, select servers, and run them securely through the user interface.

You can also configure ToolHive to use a custom registry instead. This is useful
for organizations that want to maintain their own private registry of MCP
servers.

## Find MCP servers

The ToolHive interface includes a dedicated **Registry** section in the main
menu. This section lets you explore the various MCP servers available in either
the built-in or custom registry.

<ThemedImage
  alt='ToolHive Registry Page'
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/toolhive/toolhive-ui-registry-light.webp'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/toolhive/toolhive-ui-registry-dark.webp'),
  }}
  title='ToolHive Registry Page'
></ThemedImage>

The registry interface displays servers with their:

> - **Name and description**: Brief overview of what the server does
> - **Tier**: Shows whether the server is **Official** (verified by ToolHive) or
>   **Community** (contributed by the community)
> - **Status**: Indicates if the server is currently **Active** and available
> - **Tools**: List of capabilities the server provides
> - **Popularity**: Star count and download statistics to help identify widely
>   used servers

Reviewer: I think this list is meant to be what's shown on the main interface card, since the next section gets into the details? If so I think it should be:

```suggestion
- **Name and description**: Brief overview of what the server does
- **Popularity**: Star count to help identify widely used servers
- **Repository**: A link to the GitHub repository with the MCP server's source
  code and documentation
```

Reviewer: Looks great!
